# Conway's Game of Life
This branch was an experiment, it turned out to be a dead end. In the main branch I was using each color in the storage texture as a single cell, meaning each cell was a full u32. Since cells in GOL can only have 2 states, alive or dead, they only need a single bit to represent their state. This means that it's possible to pack 32 cells into a single color instead of 1. Being able to fit a 32x larger grid in the same memory is exciting because I'm using downlevel limits in WebGPU, so the largest a texture can be is 2048 x 2048. With a 32x larger grid, I can fit a 11584x11584 GOL grid into a 2048x2048 storage texture. This branch successfully implements this optimization, and on my machine I could get the full grid to run at ~320-340 generations/sec. Considering that in the previous version I was running at ~11500 generations/sec with a 2048x2048 grid and this new grid is 32x larger, the theoretical limit for performance is 11500/32 == 359.375 generations/sec. My observed 320-340 is pretty close to this theoretical limit, so performance has scaled pretty linearly. With this new tightly packed approach, I tried running a 2048x2048 grid again and observed ~9200 generations/sec. While this branch allows for much larger grids, some performance is sacrificed, but more importantly this is a case of premature optimization, being restricted to 1 bit per cell severly restricts the kinds of simulations that can be run. I'd rather stick with the flexibility of 32 bits going forward. I can always stitch together multiple storage textures if I need a bigger grid.

320-340 generations/sec means with the right monitor this massive grid could be viewed at 320-340hz. A 11584x11584 grid contains 134,189,056 cells, I'd say it's worth running this and watching for a minute, the scale and speed is impressive. That's 4.04456790123 8k Monitors, or 1,478,656 more pixels than a 16k monitor.

If I were to turn downlevel limits off, I could use a 8192x8192 storage texture. Using every bit as a cell, I could create a 46446x46446 grid (2,147,024,896 cells). Assuming linear scaling, this would run at 20 generations/sec, probably less in reality. Checking the default limits, it looks like I could bind a max of 4 storage textures per shader stage. If I were to treat all 4 of those textures as a single grid, there is a theoretical maximum size grid size of 92672x92672 (8,588,099,584 cells). Assuming linear scaling again, this might run at 5 generations/sec. This grid size limit assumes that you want to compute each generation in a single "draw"(compute) call. Without this limitation you could go further, but performance is already bad enough.

I didn't bother to modify the drawing code, so you can't modify the grid. I may come back and fix this in the future, wouldn't take too long.
